{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{square\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u9642 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
{\info
{\title Organize Your Mac Computer}
{\author Lewis Overton}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19080\viewh16500\viewkind1

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Lewis Overton\
3281 Edby Rd\
Fairbanks, AK 99709\
\
iPhone (907) 750-4888\
Email  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:Akakie@gmail.com"}}{\fldrslt Akakie@gmail.com}}\
\
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs48 \cf0 Organize Your Mac Computer\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
by Lewis Overton\
\
\
An OLLI Course in 5 weeks\
Revised for Spring 2016\
\
\
University of Alaska Fairbanks\
\page \pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\b\fs28 \cf0 Session One: Introduction to this course
\b0 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\fi720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In this course, you are assumed to understand that 
\b files
\b0  contain 
\b data
\b0 . 
\b Folders
\b0  are containers for collecting files and other folders into a related 
\b data set
\b0 . 
\b Mass storage
\b0  is a physical location for storing files and folders (data). Mass storage can be physically part of your computer, a device that plugs into your computer, or in "
\b the cloud
\b0 ". The cloud is simply a shorthand way of saying a remote storage location accessible by the internet.\
By the way, "data" is a plural noun. The singular is "datum". Write "data are"; but write "datum is".\
\
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Considerations:\

\b0 How much do you care about organization? The simplest strategy for organizing your data is to put everything into a single folder (~Documents, for example) and hunt for it the stuff when you need it. I assume you have tried this and found it wanting. That's why you are in this course. While we are getting started, please consider how much effort you want to invest into a more complex strategy for organization. Nothing is free. If you want more organization, you need to invest time and perseverance into organization. Think about it.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u9642 	}How much time are you willing to spend on organization?\
{\listtext	\uc0\u9642 	}Will you really use whatever strategy you choose?\
{\listtext	\uc0\u9642 	}Is the benefit worth the cost of creating and staying with a plan?\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Local Storage
\b0 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\fi720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 There are two parts to the Apple operating system: a group of programs which, together, make up a version of the 
\b UNIX
\b0  operating system. UNIX controls the computer. UNIX can be accessed directly through a terminal program, but that is beyond the scope of this course.\
The other part is the 
\b Graphical User Interface
\b0  (
\b GUI
\b0 ). The GUI is what you see and interact with when you use your Mac. Apple provides a basic structure for organizing information in on your computer as follows.\
\pard\tx203\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\li720\fi-504\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'95	Operating System (OSX)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}System Library (hidden by default)\
{\listtext	\'95	}Applications (programs to perform specific tasks)\
{\listtext	\'95	}User Information (data)\
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\fi720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Each person who uses a computer has a "user name". It is possible for several people to use one computer while keeping the organization of their information structure separate. Information can be private or shared between users. We will consider a single user setup since the same principles apply to each user. \
User space contains a home folder, which will be identified as 
\b /Users/name-of-user/
\b0 . In my case, my home folder is 
\b /Users/Lewy/
\b0 , abbreviated simply as "
\b ~
\b0 ". Apple follows a typical Unix structure for storing information separately for each user, including:  \
\pard\tqr\tx1148\tx1427\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1432\fi-719\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}~/Applications\
{\listtext	\'95	}~/Desktop\
{\listtext	\'95	}~/Documents\
{\listtext	\'95	}~/Downloads\
{\listtext	\'95	}~/Library\
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\fi720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Other structure can be added, still following UNIX, but we will begin with this basic organization organization.\
 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Finder program\
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\fi720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
Apple has a good introduction to the Finder. Instead of repeating what Apple says, I encourage you to visit Apple's page, read what it offers, and follow some of the links. Finder is a powerful tool which is central to Mac systems. Please go to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://support.apple.com/kb/PH19081?locale=en_US"}}{\fldrslt https://support.apple.com/kb/PH19081?locale=en_US}}. Read or at least skim this document and explore the links there. You can do this from home.\
Of particular importance, pay attention to the discussion of 
\b folders
\b0  and  
\b tags
\b0 . Tags are the term Apple uses. Other vendors may say 
\b labels
\b0  or 
\b keywords
\b0 . The concept is the same \'96 an identifier which can be associated with multiple files or folders. You can choose to use folders or tags 
\b or a combination
\b0  of folders and tags (recommended). Just as a document or an idea can be relevant to multiple topics or projects, a tag can be attached to multiple data items.\
\
\pard\tqr\tx1148\tx1427\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1432\fi-719\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 The major difference between folders and tags:\
{\listtext	\'95	}If you rely completely on folders, you need to remember the structure of your filing system and the names of folders and files. The entire path is unique. To refer to a particular file, you need the path or the names. \
{\listtext	\'95	}The alternative is a collection of tags. Any file or folder can have multiple tags which relate that folder or file to multiple other documents.\
{\listtext	\'95	}There is no reason to settle on folders or tags exclusively. Using a combination can be very effective depending on your personal style.\
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\fi720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\b Search for: 
\i\b0 how to use tags to organize files
\i0 \
For more explanation about using tags.  \
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\fi720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Preview of Coming Attractions\
\pard\tx718\tx1440\tx2160\fi741\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Here is a short example of where we are going. I know I will be working with both files and folders related to Osher for a while. I will want quick access to related material for an extended period, but eventually I will want everything to disappear into extended storage. I will also want to be able to back up at least the data I am working on quickly and easily. Here is how I organize this stuff.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1.	}I decided to keep OLLI related stuff inside 
\b ~/Documents/OLLI
\b0 \
{\listtext	2.	}Open  ~/Documents/OLLI. Create folder 
\b Teach
\b0  for classes I teach\
{\listtext	3.	}Open Teach. Create folder for next class 
\b 2016-spring2
\b0 \
{\listtext	4.	}Open 2016-spring2. Create two folders: 
\b sessions
\b0  and 
\b support
\b0 \
{\listtext	5.	}I write one section for each week, saving each with a file name identifying which session (week) and the general topic\
{\listtext	6.	}Note: Session zero, which is distributed to registered students before classes begin.\
{\listtext	7.	}Make an alias of the class folder. Drag it to the desktop.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\fi720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Once you have stored some data, it is easy to forget where you put them. Relying on memory may work for a while, but remembering how to get back to your data may have faded away. We will address this issue in future sessions when we take up searching.
\f0\fs24 \
}