{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{circle\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u9702 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
{\info
{\title Organize Your Mac Computer}
{\author Lewis Overton}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww22920\viewh16500\viewkind0

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Lewis Overton\
3281 Edby Rd\
Fairbanks, AK 99709\
\
iPhone (907) 750-4888\
Email  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:Akakie@gmail.com"}}{\fldrslt Akakie@gmail.com}}\
\
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\pardirnatural\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs48 \cf0 Organize Your Mac Computer\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
by Lewis Overton\
\
\
An OLLI Course in 5 weeks\
revised for Spring 2016\
\
\
University of Alaska Fairbanks\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs48 \cf0 \page \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs36 \cf0 Using These Notes
\fs28 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
These documents, stored on the OLLI web server, are served in Rich Text Format (RTF). I suggest you download your own copy from the server. Once you have created your own copy, save it on your computer. Note that you can do this from home. \
\pard\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi718\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I encourage you to read  the documents on your computer. That gives you access to the live links scattered through my notes and quick access to your browser for related searches. You can read, edit, add notes, and save your changes and notes to your own computer. Most word processors and text editors will read and write RTF files. I used TextEdit to revise the notes, but use what you are comfortable with. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tqr\tx1148\tx1427\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1432\fi-719\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Prepared using OS X EL CAPITAN 10.11.2\
{\listtext	\'95	}Edited with TextEdit RTF\
{\listtext	\'95	}Character encoding is UTF-8\
{\listtext	\'95	}Headings and important words are shown in 
\b Bold
\b0 .\
{\listtext	\'95	}Titles of references are printed in 
\i italic
\i0 .\
{\listtext	\'95	}Links to other sites are in in blue text and are underlined. \
{\listtext	\'95	}Links are "live". If you click on a link, most editors will take you to another site in your default browser.\
{\listtext	\'95	}App is a synonym for application or program. I use them interchangeably.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Browser refers to Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or other program to access the internet.\
{\listtext	\'95	}URL is an internet address for web sites.
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Copyright
\b0 \
\pard\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi718\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 These documents are licensed under a 
\b Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 
\b0 License agreement (
\b CC BY-NC
\b0 ). This license lets others remix, tweak, and build upon this non-commercially, and although their new works must also acknowledge the author and be non-commercial, they don\'92t have to license their derivative works on the same terms. For more information about Creative Commons, visit their website at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/"}}{\fldrslt https://creativecommons.org/licenses/}} . Note that if you leave the OLLI website, licensing is governed by the new site you visit.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Read Me First\
\pard\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi718\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 I strongly recommend that everyone in this class download and read 
\i Read Me First - A Take Control Crash Course
\i0 . The book is short at 49 pages. Once downloaded, you can read it with 
\b Textedit
\b0  or with 
\b Preview
\b0 , which comes with OS X. It is offered 
\b for free
\b0  by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.takecontrolbooks.com"}}{\fldrslt https://www.takecontrolbooks.com}} as a promotion for their other publications. 
\i Read Me First
\i0  will walk you through the basics of using a Mac computer. Some of the material will be familiar, but some may be new. I picked up several new ideas from reading the material.\
To get your copy, click open the link {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.takecontrolbooks.com/read-me-first"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 https://www.takecontrolbooks.com/read-me-first}}. Follow the instructions to download the book. Save it on your computer and read it. Keep it handy for reference as you work through this course. Be aware that the book will contain links to purchase products from the company. Buy them or not at your discretion. None are required for this course. 
\b Disclaimer:
\b0  I have no connection with Take Control Books other than being a fan of their products. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx0\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 Finding resources:\
\pard\tqr\tx1148\tx1427\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1432\fi-719\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\b Search for:
\b0  suggests search terms with which you can search the internet for relevant information	\
{\listtext	\'95	}
\b Referencses or Resources off site
\b0 : suggests reading or links to related information\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Terminology (aka Geek Speak)\
\
\pard\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi718\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 People enrolled in this course should have at least a general understanding of how to use a Mac computer. That means that you understand how to use the menus at the top of each page, how to run programs that come with the Mac, and that you can access the internet. You are looking for help with where to put stuff on your Mac. You need not be a whiz at using everything on your computer. \
Communicating with your instructor, OIT (Office of Information Technology), help desk personnel, geeks, hackers, and other creatures of the night can be a trial. We all fall into using jargon on occasion. Try looking up terms you do not understand in one of the computer glossaries available on the internet. To help you find supporting information, look for search hints and links to off site web pages. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
Search for:
\b0  
\i \cf3 computer glossary terminology\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i0 \cf3 (Usage: paste the words in italic (in this case, "computer glossary terminology") into your browser search area and search)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Resources off site:
\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx1148\tx1427\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1432\fi-719\ri-7923\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}Independent glossary ( {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.techterms.com"}}{\fldrslt http://www.techterms.com}} )\
{\listtext	\'95	}From University of Chicago ( {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://goo.gl/MqFaE"}}{\fldrslt http://goo.gl/MqFaE}} ) Includes links to other glossaries.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Internet acronyms and glossary from WhatIs  ( {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://goo.gl/KD2fEr"}}{\fldrslt http://goo.gl/KD2fEr}} )\
{\listtext	\'95	}Understanding the techie mind ( {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://xkcd.com"}}{\fldrslt http://xkcd.com}} )\
}